
### What is Docker?

- a tool for containerazation of applications/code
- a tool for running/managing such containers
- a platform which allows you to share these containers and use containers other people shared

Docker is a software platform for building, running, and managing
applications based on containers — small and lightweight execution environments 
that make shared use of the operating system kernel but otherwise run in 
isolation from one another. While containers have been used in Linux and Unix 
systems for some time, Docker, an open source project launched in 2013, 
helped popularize the technology by making it easier than ever for developers 
to package their software to “build once and run anywhere.”

question id: 79a5fcb4-e53c-48d4-be59-7f49163157f1



### Why do we need Docker or any tools of this nature?

answer:

To pack our applications in a container that has instructions how to build and run it as well
as versions off all dependencies pinned. So if you pack it once on your PC, it should work exactly
the same on every other PC that has docker.
You set up your application only once, provide an instruction (docker file) how to build it
and that's all. You don't need to set up and deploy it manually on any other machines - it will
be done automatically by docker.

question id: eecdcc88-0e41-47c2-a887-b76e44e86e35


### What is container? 

Container - it's a separate linux process. In isolated environment 
for running an application with all the necessary components 
and dependencies packed inside.

https://dysnix.com/blog/kubernetes-vs-serverless-part-1/

question id: 166c0543-8980-4d21-8b23-876495154045


### What is containerization?

Containerization - the process of packing an app into containers
and filling them with all necessary stuff in order to work flawlessly.

question id: 311e6fde-77a2-448e-a063-436532f86aca


### What is a Virtual Machine?

answer:

It is an abstraction of a machine (physical hardware)

question id: 5b451c87-b172-4b8e-9344-a439bf21f66d


### Why containers are more lightweight than the VMs?

answer:
Virtual Machines run full-blown copy of OS,
therefore they demand of a lot of resources

Containers, on the other hand, share the kernel
of the host OS, that's why they start quickly
and need fewer resources

question id: 5ddf3917-fcba-4cd5-8639-efe71df255f5


### Can you run any container (Linux-, Windows-, MacOS-container) on any OS? Why?

answer:

Because containers share the kernel of the host OS, you can, for example, only 
run Linux containers on Linux. However, Windows nowadays has a Linux kernel as well,
so you can run Linux container there too. MacOS has its own kernel, so to run Linux 
containers on MacOS, Docker uses lightweight Linux VM.

question id: e0a96a4a-854c-438b-957f-3360d6042a94


